About paper named: Development of an Internet of Things Solution to Monitor and Analyse Indoor Air Quality -

Monitoring air quality is set to become more important at home, in the workplace and at social venues, particularly with regard to promoting wellness and safeguarding social interaction. In this paper we present a didactic approach to implementing indoor air quality monitoring using a cost effective IoT solution. This solution is based upon low cost air quality sensors and edge computing nodes. We provide a tutorial that allows this solution to be replicated (software components have been made available); similar solutions could have widespread use. Our test implementation monitored two rooms (kitchen and study), each equipped with a Bosch BME680 sensor connected to a WiFi enabled microcontroller for data transmission to a local server for storage on a database. A web based dashboard allowed for the feedback of sensor data. Two, 2-week data collection periods were undertaken to demonstrate the proof of concept. The first period was in the summer 2020 and the second in the autumn 2020 (during coronavirus ‘lockdown’ conditions). Analysis of the data showed a strong relationship between humidity and air quality (correlation coefficients of -0.624 in summer and -0.692 in autumn), with air quality degrading in the autumn collection period. As humidity increases, air quality decreases; temperature has a weaker relationship with air quality. Further analysis showed that everyday household products can adversely impact on the air quality. Indeed, aerosol disinfectants quickly reduce the quality of the air, possibly mimicking virus infection transmission vectors. Poor air quality can be mitigated by opening a window to speed up the dissipation rate of pollutants. The work presented here provides an implementation guide and a validation of the IoT approach, (i) showing that indoor contaminants can be discovered and (ii) that daily and seasonal trends can be measured. Sensitivity and longer term use ‘in the wild’ still needs to be assessed. The quantification of indoor air quality can inform activities such as cooking, heating, usage of disinfectants and monitoring of ventilation, which can potentially benefit of people with respiratory illness.

As the application as a whole is unable to run on the Code Ocean platform, this R script, along with the sensor data have been included on this capsule as a demo. The full application includes a fully responsive web application, along with a hardware sensor system, which in its self has its own software. As a system, it has the ability to sense and store air quality data from the BME680 locally. In addition, the sensor system sends the air quality data server side via a HTTP POST request. 

As it isnt possible for the whole application to be submitted via the Code Ocean platform; the following GitHub links are where the whole application can be found:

https://github.com/DylanWall96/IAQ-IoT-Project-WebApp-main
https://github.com/DylanWall96/IAQ-IoT-ESP32

Furthemore, the active application can be found here:
http://dylaniot.ddns.net/AirQualityProject/